# StreetcarDelayPredictor

Imagine that you are on the streetcar in the early morning. Suddenly, the streetcar stalls and you hear the driver over the speaker system announcing that there is currently a delay. Who knows when it will clear up? The Toronto Transit Committee (TTC) streetcars are a form of transportation that thousands of Torontonians and tourists alike use daily. When a delay occurs, it is difficult to determine how long it will last, and whether it will greatly impact the overall commute. In this project, we will attempt to predict the length of delay times on streetcars at the location and time that they occur, combined with other external factors accessible to the rider. 

To compute these predictions, we chose to use data from four different sources – streetcar delay data from 2022 and 2023, daily weather data, and hourly weather data. Since streetcars operate outside, it would be reasonable to explore the relationship between delays and weather. Data cleaning was also done to remove missing or inconsistent values and remove unnecessary features that were determined by the team. 

When performing exploratory data analysis, with insights into incident type, day of week, with delay lengths, four predictive models were made. These include linear regression, Classification and Regression Tree, Random Forest, and Neural Networks. After implementing model engineering strategies such as scaling, feature engineering, feature selection and grid search, the Random Forest model outperforms others with the lowest RMSE of 45.033, suggesting its superior predictive capability. On the other hand, the CART model's negative R² indicates it performs worse than the mean of the dependent variable. These insights will direct our focus on refining the more promising models to improve the predictability of streetcar delays.
